In this video,
you're going to learn about Markov chains.
Markov chains are really important because
they are used in speech recognition.
And they're also used for
parts of speech tagging.
In this video, we're going to learn
about transition probabilities, and
you will also learn about states.
>> Before jumping in let's
start with a small example,
to show what you want to accomplish.
And then you will see how Markov
chains can help accomplish the task.
If you look at the sentence,
why not learn, the word learn is a verb.
The question you want to answer is whether
the following word in the sentence is
a noun, a verb, or
some other parts of speech.
If you're familiar with the English
language, you might guess that if you
see a verb in the sentence, the following
word is more likely to be a noun.
Rather than another verb.
So the idea here, is that the likelihood
of the next words part of speech tag
in a sentence tends to depend on the part
of speech tag of the previous word.
Makes sense, right?
You can represent a different
likelihoods visually.
Here you have a circle
representing a verb.
And over here you have
a circle representing a noun.
You can draw an arrow that goes from
the verb circle to the noun circle.
So the following arrow.
You can draw another arrow that
goes from the verb circle, and
loops around back to point at itself.
You can associate numbers
with each of these arrows.
Where a larger number means that
there is a higher likelihood,
you're moving from one
circle to the other.
In this example, the arrow that goes
from the verb so the noun maybe 0.6.
Whereas the arrow that goes from the verb,
back to the verb has a 0.2.
The higher number of 0.6, means that it's
more likely to go from a verb to a noun.
As opposed to from a verb,
to another verb.
This is a great example of how Markov
chains work on a very small scale.
So what's our Markov chains?
They're a type of stochastic model that
describes a sequence of possible events.
To get the probability for each event,
it needs only the states
of the previous events.
The word stochastic just means random or
randomness.
So a stochastic model,
incorporates and models processes
does have a random component to them.
A Markov chain,
can be depicted as a directed graph.
So in the context of Computer Science,
a graph is a kind of data structure
that is visually represented,
as a set of circles connected by lines.
When the lines that connect the circles
have arrows that indicates a certain
direction, this is
called a directed graph.
The circles of the graph,
represents states of our model.
A state refers to a certain
condition of the present moment.
For example, if you are using a graph to
model whether water is in a frozen state,
a liquid state, or a gas state.
Then you would draw a circle, for each
of these states to represent the three
possible states that water
can be at the present moment.
I'm labeling each state as q1, q2, q3 etc.
To give them each a unique name.
Then referring to the set of all
states with a capital letter Q.
For this graph there are three states,
q1, q2, and q3.
Next up, get ready to use Markov
chains to tag parts of speech.
>> You now learned about
the states in your model.
And we said that the states represent
the condition, or the present moments.
These states, could be thought
of as part of speech tags.
Maybe one states could
correspond to the verbs.
Another one could correspond
to the nouns and so forth.
So in the next video,
we will learn about parts of speech tags